<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="juniors">
    <title>Choosing Technical Electives</title>
    <shortdesc>Students within the ISyE major are required to take at least five (5) technical
        elective courses to earn their degree. These courses allow a student to build a speciality
        area, or focus, into their program, which can prepare them for their desired career.
        Typically, juniors need this guidance as most of their technical courses are taken in their
        senior year, as shown in the ISyE four-year sample program.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><b>Before the meeting:</b><ol>
                <li>Print the student's current Academic Process Audit Summary (APAS) report.</li>
                <li>From the APAS report, verify which entry level ISyE required courses have been
                    completed.</li>
                <li>Mark off the student's completed courses on the ISyE four-year sample program.
                    This guide will provide students with an easy-to-read planning tool to determine
                    when they will register for their chosen technical elective courses..</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>During the meeting:</b><ol id="ol_wpl_xl2_qjb">
                <li>To gain an understanding of a student's career interests, start by asking any of
                    these questions:<ul id="ul_w31_bm2_qjb">
                        <li>What courses have you enjoyed?</li>
                        <li>What courses have you not enjoyed?</li>
                        <li>What courses do you feel you excelled in?</li>
                        <li>Have you had any internship experience? If so, where and what was your
                            job title?</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>Then pull out the Technical Electives list. Based on the student's answers from
                    the questions above, begin to narrow down the course options that match with
                    their interests.</li>
                <li>If necessary, pull out the Career Services guide and run down the example job
                    titles typical of ISyE graduates. Use the student's responses to further narrow
                    down which courses they should take and what internship opportunities they
                    should consider.<p><b>NOTE:</b> Sometimes it helps to read through course
                        descriptions with the student for each technical elective of interest.
                        Consider leaving the student with five or six courses to mull over in the
                        time after the advising appointment. Suggest they make a follow-up
                        appointment within ten (10) days of the date of the current
                    appointment.</p></li>
                <li>Provide the student with the Technical Elective form.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>After the meeting:</b><ol id="ol_hqv_2n2_qjb">
                <li>Log the meeting notes into APLUS.</li>
                <li>If there are any follow-up communications, either schedule or perform them.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p/>
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_abd_jn2_qjb">
            <title>Questions to consider</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Question</entry>
                        <entry>Answer</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>When are Technical Elective forms due?</entry>
                        <entry>Each student's Technical Elective form needs to be completed by the
                            last day of their junior year, or two semesters prior to their intended
                            graduation day.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p><b>ADDITIONAL RESOURCES:</b><ul id="ul_sqh_2l2_qjb">
                <li>Career Services guide</li>
                <li>ISyE four-year-sample program</li>
                <li>Technical Electives list</li>
                <li>Technical Elective form</li>
            </ul></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
