<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="seniors">
    <title>Choosing Career Outcomes</title>
    <shortdesc>Shortly after a student has laid out their technical elective roadmap, they will need
        to begin making post-graduation plans. This guide is intended to fascilitate those
        questions, which will largely be directed toward seniors in the ISyE program.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><b>Before the meeting:</b><ol id="ol_khs_h1l_qjb">
                <li>Print the student's current Academic Process Audit Summary (APAS) report.</li>
                <li>From the APAS report, verify which entry level ISyE required courses have been
                    completed.</li>
                <li>Mark off the student's completed courses on the ISyE four-year sample program.
                    This guide will provide students with an easy-to-read planning tool to ensure
                    they graduate on time.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>During the meeting:</b><ol id="ol_c44_w1l_qjb">
                <li>Run through their APAS report and the ISyE four-year sample program to verify
                    the student's graduation plan.</li>
                <li>Review any final technical elective changes. A student's interests may have
                    shifted since they were in an internship over the summer, for instance.</li>
                <li>Verify that the student has RSVP'd for the graduation ceremony. Information
                    about graduation day is largely sent via email.</li>
                <li>Suggest the student shift to the Career Center for further advising. They can
                    also choose to meet with a faculty advisor who has experience in the industry
                    they are pursuing.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p/>
        <p><b>After the meeting:</b><ol id="ol_hdq_sbl_qjb">
                <li>Log the meeting notes into APLUS.</li>
                <li>If there is any follow-up communication, either schedule or perform it.</li>
            </ol></p>
        <p/>
        <p>
            <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_wfg_ndl_qjb">
                <title>Questions to consider</title>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry>Questions</entry>
                            <entry>Answers</entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>What events should students be aware of?</entry>
                            <entry>The career fairs in September and February can offer
                                post-graduation internship and hiring opportunities.</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>What kind of activities should students be engaging in to be job
                                ready?</entry>
                            <entry>On campus there are regular industry information sessions and
                                off-site interviews, although the timing changes year-to-year.
                                Students should consider having their resume reviewed, learning
                                about negotiation strategies for income and job benefits, and
                                actively searching for networking opportunities.</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </p>
        <p><b>ADDITIONAL RESOURCES:</b><ul id="ul_sqh_2l2_qjb">
                <li>Career Services guide</li>
                <li>ISyE four-year-sample program</li>
                <li>Technical Electives list</li>
            </ul></p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
